Let's have a look at
how simple it is to use
JSON Web Tokens to authorize
requests in an application.
Starting with lab secure-jwt start script,
which populates our exercise directories,
let's move to it.
That's /DO378/labs/secure-jwt.
You can see by listing the files in it,
we have a number of scripts here.
For now we are just going to use
the start-keycloak script,
which starts the authorization server.
It's containerized, so it's going to
take a little bit to download the image,
but then it just starts up magically.
So in the meantime,
while it's starting up,
we can switch to another terminal
window and go one level deeper.
So DO378/
labs/secure-jwt/expense-service/.
This is where our familiar
expense service is located.
The source code is,
as we are used to it,
except with the addition of
a single PkiResource file.
If we have a look at that file,
it's actually a simple rest endpoint,
just registers the /pki context.
And for any GET request,
it tries to inject SecurityContext into
the ctx variable and then prints it
out in JSON, of course if it's available.
So let's start quarkus, it starts up.
Let's go over to the next terminal,
where we are going to generate some tokens.
So first, back to the
secure-jwt directory.
We have got the keycloak-token script,
which we can invoke like this.
So we are just basically saving
its output and assigning
it to the jane variable.
So the invocation is the host name
and the port of the authorization server.
The name of the realm,
the name of the client
that we want to use,
username, password.
So that's the token name,
the username and the password I believe.
And here we go.
There is some output from
the script and it says,
Hey, I have successfully
retrieved the token,
the roles that had been assigned
in the authorization server to
this token are modify, read, offline_access and uma_authorization.
And this is the token itself.
And the nice thing is this entire
collection of information,
so the identity of the user,
the roles they had been assigned,
is actually encoded in this token,
which can be decoded on the
side of the application.
Now, john will also need their own token.
And here we are.
john has modify, read, offline_access,
uma_authorization and
an additional role that
jane does not have, delete.
He also has this token and
the debug user will also
generate a token for that one.
The debug user just has offline_access
and uma_authorization roles,
and also gets a token. Right!
So if we try invoking
the pki endpoint without any
sort of additional information,
it just says, nope, it's not secure.
I can't verify your
identity, which is logical.
We didn't provide any information.
Now if we add jane's token to the request,
so we are just going to turn on verbose
output so that we see the headers
and we are going to add Content-Type
header because we know
the pki endpoint only
accepts json payloads.
And the Authorization: Bearer with
jane's token appended to it
is the header that should,
if everything was correct
in the application,
should turn on the authorization workflows
and decode the token and
actually recognize the subject.
So if we send this to
localhost:8080/pki
the response is, yes, there is an
authenticationScheme of Bearer
but I cannot recognize what this is.
This is because we haven't
yet added and configured
the OpenID Connect
extension to the project.
So we're going to have to
add it using the quarkus:
add-extension command or by
adding it manually to pom.xml.
Then we have to edit the application.properties
file and configure
the oidc.client to connect to
this URL for the quarkus realm
to use the client-id of
backend-service and the credentials
for the client are secret.
So once we have added these 3 lines of
configuration in addition to
the OpenID Connect extension,
if we repeat the same request,
the security context is now injected
into the pki endpoint and it says,
well, it's not secure because it isn't,
we're not using TLS.
But I do recognize the userPrincipal,
these are the claimNames in the token,
and this is the expirationTime of the
token it was issued at
this particular time.
And the issuer was this OIDC server
and this is the rawToken,
and so on and so on.
And then finally, towards the end,
here we have the roles that
jane has been assigned with.
So in the realm_access and
both in resource_access,
there are some account roles
for certain resources.
These are all configuring
the OIDC server.
There is a preferred_username for
the user and a bit of
additional information as well.
Great!
Now let's go over to the expense-service,
open it in an editor and make sure that
only authenticated users can access
endpoints from the ExpenseResource.
We can do that by simply adding
the @Authenticated annotation at
the top of the class, saving it,
exiting and just repeating the request to,
we are sending a request we haven't made it
yet to the expenses endpoint
which will generate lists.
The 2 default expenses,
says we are not allowed to proceed
because we are not authorized.
If we add the Authorization token of
jane, for example, we do
get the normal response
because jane's token, as we just saw,
is recognized and verified by the
OpenID Connect server and we can get
the content because now jane is
authorized, is authenticated.
If we go further and add
some role related restrictions
to individual endpoints,
starting with the GET endpoint, we'll say
that the list of Expenses can only
be obtained by people
who have the read role.
So we will add @Roles
Allowed annotation and set it to read.
Now the debug user does not have a read role.
It just has a offline access
and authentication roles.
If we try using the debug
users token to connect,
see that the response is Forbidden.
And then if we add another set of
restrictions to the modifying endpoints
to create and the update,
so the POST and the PUT request, adding
@RolesAllowed modify annotation
on top of those 2 methods.
One level above the source code directory,
we have a payload.json file,
which we can use to try to
create a new, a new expense.
So we will try sending a
POST request containing
the contents of the payload.json file
and the Authorization
token of the debug user,
which again does not have any roles
except offline access and authorization.
If we try to send that as a
post request to/expenses
endpoint, we are again Forbidden.
However, if we change the Bearer token
to that of jane and send
the same POST request,
the request is accepted,
processed and a new expense is created.
Right!
So let's add a restriction
for the deletion of expenses.
So we are again going to be opening
the ExpenseResource file and simply
adding a @RolesAllowed delete
annotation on the delete method.
If we try to delete an expense
using jane's Bearer token,
remember only john has a delete role.
So if you try to delete an expense
using jane's token, we are Forbidden.
Now there's a trick.
If we try to delete this new
expense, it won't be there.
See, even if I use john's
Authorization token,
the expense is gone because while
we were adding the @RolesAllowed
annotation and sending a new
request to DELETE an expense,
which we thought was already there
between these 2 moments in
time that the server restarted.
And of course since the
database is not persistant
this expense is gone.
Now let's have a look at one
of the existing expenses.
So just using john's token to
get a list and just choose,
for example, this Civilization VI uuid
and try to delete it as user john.
We see that the response is OK
and it says, well, yes,
this expense was deleted and if we
try to review the list,
it is indeed gone and only
the Groceries are left.
So, we see that role-based
authorization is now working for us.
Now all that remains is to restrict
any other unannotated
endpoint in the application,
so let's open the
application.properties file
once more and simply add quarkus.security.
jaxrs.deny-unannotated-endpoints
setting it to true.
I bet you forgot there is a pki
endpoint somewhere in
another file, right?
So if we send the curl GET request to
the pki endpoint, we now get
an Unauthorized response,
which is correct, of course.
And that's regardless
of what token we use,
is that endpoint is not annotated,
so it doesn't have any
security-related instructions with it
and that's why it's just
simply Forbidden. We can now
stop the Quarkus server pressing Control C,
and then simply go back to
the home directory and run the
lab secure-jwt finish script,
then move on to the next video,
which is the end of chapter
review lab. See you there.